---
title: Aao Na!
description: 
header:  Come here Naoo!
---
Listening to a particularly silky Hindi song, the softness and melody catching me by surprise. I was struck as though by a bolt of lightning from my distant past. 

The song is "Aao Na", from the film (of course) Kyun! Ho Gaya Na. So enthralled was I, that it took me only till about halfway through the song to look up the lyrics. 

And that's when the past came thundering through to stun me like a lightning bolt. 

"Oooooh" I silently inhaled, coz everyone was asleep, "that's what "Aao Na" means! (Come to me)". My entire life I had no idea what it meant or what language it was, despite having heard it much too frequently during my childhood.

When we were young, my mother would beckon at her two little puski's whenever we were out of reach of a good slap, or at least the terrifying threat of one.  My whole life I seem to have thought it meant idiot or fool, or something shameful. 

"AU NA!" she'd snap at one of us, sometimes even both at the same time. It had quite the chilling effect, at least for me, because I knew there was a good chance the next words coming out her mouth would be "Take those glasses(spectacles) off your face", a clear indication that someone was gonna get hurt reel bad. 

You see, it's okay to punish your children for misbehaving, a smart person knows not to harm their ability to see you doing it lol...

In fact this was the first time I heard it in uttered in such a gentle and inviting manner. The realization did make me chuckle though! Anyway, here are the lyrics and translation, courtesy of a friend:

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/1OdIiuGt2DMOa1oOReao7V" width="300" height="80" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true"></iframe>